you need to have the JavaScript library,
and it's ideal for single page websites because it allows us the user to be able to see
which section there on that's within the navigation bar.
So when you have the navigation bar the top as they scroll down,
it will update thes as active.
That's a really cool thing about it.
It's really easy to odd to your project.
So first within your CSS,
add in the body position to relative,
and if you refresh it,
you're not going to see any difference quite yet.
They're going down into the body at an attribute data spy and equal that value to be scroll
so that this is being applied to the whole body.
And if you have the scroll spy in particular sections,
then you would do the same thing for the section that you want.
Apply the school spy to and then data target,
and this is going to be the target of where you've got your navigation and our target
doesn't have an idea.
So I need to add in an I d for the navigation bar,
so give it an I D so that we can identify it as an attribute and we'll just call it Navy
Novey and then the data target and make sure you include the hash so it understands it as
an I.
D.
Let's refresh.
You see that the school sport.
Now,
as we scroll through the various elements,
it's gonna update the values and is gonna provide it as active.
And just to be sure,
you can go down to the JavaScript as well and add that in.
So I'm gonna add some custom script.
So custom script tag is where it can add the javascript of the geek worry.
So selecting the Body Scroll spy.
So if we don't want to place it within the body as an attribute,
we can also do it down here as Na'vi.
And this is gonna work the same way.
And this if we want to do it that way,
we can get rid of the body attributes and remove it save.
And now it's still working.
So it's working for the JavaScript,
so there's two different ways to apply it.
I gotta keep both in the project,
but he only really do need one,
so you could do it with the scroll spy in the JavaScript or you could do it within the body
attributes and are scrolling even though it's working,
it's not smooth.
So now we're gonna apply the JavaScript in order to make it more smooth.
Let's clean up the code and apply some JavaScript to make smooth scrolling.
And in order to get the smooth scrolling,
we are gonna have to do some custom coding using J Query and apply that to the bottom.
Within the script tags need to update the J Query Library,
so by default it uses the slim version,
which is a slimmed down version of Jake Worry.
So some of the J.
Corey functionality might not be available,
and you might have already found that if you are rating Gee query and you find that it's
not working within bootstrap,
that's because it's got the slim version in The slim version is missing some of the
functions that are contained within the full version.
So we do need the full version for animation because animation is only contained within the
full version does not.
When the one that's by default with bootstrap,
there's a number of places to get the J.
Corey Library see,
go to that bakery website downloaded there if you wanted to store it locally,
if you want to use a cdn,
the one that I usually go to is Google.
It's available developers dot google dot com for slash speed for its Pash libraries.
And this is one that I prefer to use because I think a lot of websites are using Google s
Oh,
it does increase the speed,
and you don't have to worry about any of maybe some download and library slow down of your
website,
because if the user already has it cached,
then it's gonna load relatively quickly because it's cash within the browser.
And that's the nice thing about using CD ends when you are programming and using common
shared libraries.
So now we're just gonna overwrite the J Query one and you'll find that Bootstrap still
works the same because now we've got the full version,
so it's just given us some more options,
so everything is still running the same way as before.
So now,
going into the script tags because this is JavaScript and Jake Worry is a JavaScript
library.
So it's why I referred to it as JavaScript because at the heart of it is JavaScript.
But the methods and the structure and some of the code that you write it's gonna be based
on what is available in G query.
So we need to first use a selector in J coury and the way that we did the selector just
like we did the body element on the page.
We select the element that we want to work with and number of different ways to select it.
So I'm selecting it,
using the hash.
So that indicates that we're looking for element nav Bar One and not gonna correspond with
,
of course,
the navigation bar.
And actually,
we've given an idea of Navy,
so it's updated down there as well.
So Navy is gonna be our knave bar and then looking at the honored A list and the list items
that are contained in there and we all on a select specific ones is going to be the ones
with the H rough.
And the reason that we're being specific here is that we want to make sure that we're Onley
selecting the ones that are equal to ah ha hush of we want to make sure we're selecting the
ones with the hash on Lee because we don't want all of the hyperlinks in the nav bar to go
out to to be activated when we click it so that meaning these ones here,
the social icons would We don't have any associate ID scroll with them,
and we don't want Thies to get fired off whenever the user makes this selection.
That's why we've specified the path to the specific elements,
and you have to be really specific here.
So once you have selected the element adding an event listener,
so the on and we're adding on click event.
So that means that the Event listener is gonna fire off every time it's clicked and the
structures to have a function in there and within the function.
It's passing the event object,
so that's contained within the function.
And this is basically what is going to get selected and invoked that event object,
and we have to prevent the default action as well,
and this is just to illustrate just to make sure that we have actually selected it properly
.
So go into the console and now whenever we click thes,
we see that there is an event that's taking place.
And whenever we click the those hyperlinks,
it's not invoking the function,
and that's what we want.
This error is an error for the brackets editor.
So you're not gonna encounter that if you using another type of editor as well as the
warning about the button is part of what's contained within the bootstrap CSS,
so that hopefully there's gonna be fixed for that soon,
so that won't be appearing anymore.
And we're not using any of that styling that's been deputy created anyway.
So that is something that you can ignore as well,
for now.
And there's more information about chrome and some of updates that they're doing.
So once we actually link it properly,
you're not going to see any errors,
and we see the event is being fired off.
So what we will also want to do is we want to use the prevent default action,
so this is going to prevent any kind of default action.
So typically with hyperlinks and HTML,
it already knows that this is supposed to link out somewhere so supposed to go somewhere so
want to prevent that default action from happening because we want to create the animation
with decree that's over removing the default action.
Also using Let hash.
We're gonna collect a variable using this object.
And this is referring to the active element that made the event that triggered the event.
And you can console Log that out as well.
If you want.
You don't have to do all of this console log.
You can copy and paste my code and just update the I d of your navigation bar if you want.
But this is for those that I really want to understand what's happening here with the
coding.
It's no when we click.
So you were picking up The harsh is about so that's gonna include the content and that's
gonna be how we're gonna know where were animating to where we're scrolling too.
And this hush if we select it as an element and using the J query structure were selected
as the element it's gonna have on offset top value.
Is this gonna be a value of where the section starts?
How many pixels down on the screen?
And this will change depending on the screen size and amount of content within that screen
area.
So if I make it bigger,
and actually,
we're not going to the footer they're not able to see.
But this could vary,
and this is dynamically picked up with the code because we need this value in order to
specify to the J query.
We wanna anime school,
too.
And now comes the fun part where we actually make it school.
Where makes it happen?
So take the HTML and the body tag.
So the elements with HTML and body that full and use Anna Meat,
which is a J coury function,
which performs a custom animation so it automatically applies all that styling in order to
perform the animation.
So Jake worry is just a quick way to do some really,
uh,
updates on your CSS,
and we want to scroll top.
So we need to specify position that we want to scroll to.
So if we did something like 300 or something like that,
it would always scroll to 300.
That's the pixel position,
that it's scrolling,
too,
and this is where we use the value that we got from the Hashi,
and we could specify where we want to scroll to.
So let's try that again.
So now we're scrolling to the right position.
I got close the consul,
because we're not going to need it anymore.
Now it's scrolling to the right spot and see that's nice animated scroll.
And so you also do have some options on the scrolling so we can slow it down or we could
speed it up.
So if we want to take one second to scroll,
that's 1000 milliseconds and then the function.
Whenever the school is finished,
I want to update this window location,
see it or is still says contact.
And that's because of the hashes that were being applied whenever we clicked the menu here
.
So we want this to update as well,
so that the URL corresponds with where we are on the page.
And we could do that with JavaScript,
where we select the window object,
take the location of the browser window and updated toe hash and equal it to whatever the
hash is and the hashes just this value here that's gonna be appearing.
At that end,
let's see how that works.
So you see it and updates to projects.
It updates the story at updates to contact,
and if you find that scrolling is too slow.
You could always speed it up,
and if you find it's too fast,
you could always slow it down.
So whatever your preferences for users,
I find that's actually a little bit too fast.
And I usually prefer to stay around one second for the scrolling,
so it doesn't matter how far it's scrolling.
It's always going to take one second to do the scrolling,
so actually calculates all of the in between.
So that's it.
That's how you can add that nice animation effect to your project.
You're single page website.
Let's try that one more time and check it out.
And that last part was just updating that you are else so that it updates accordingly to
whatever you're scrolled to.
So even if you're scrolling and it's updating the scroll spy,
so whatever you click thes,
it's gonna update the hash there in the URL.
And I didn't want to focus too much on what bakery is and how it works.
Eso It's just been a quick overview of the functionality that's relevant to this project,